Add Gateway API v1.1 Blog Post (#45971)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2024-05-13-Gateway-API-v1.1/index.md

### Graduation to Standard
This release includes the graduation to Standard of four eagerly awaited features.
This means they are no longer experimental concepts. **Standard** denotes a high
level of confidence in the API surface and provides guarantees of backward
compatibility.  Though these features are now considered stable, that does not
mean that they are complete. These and other features will continue to evolve via
the Experimental channel. For more information on how all of this works, refer
to the [Gateway API Versioning Policy](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/concepts/versioning/).

#### [GAMMA](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/mesh/)
Service mesh support in Gateway API allows service mesh users to use the same
API to manage ingress traffic and mesh traffic, reusing the same policy and
routing interfaces. In Gateway API v1.1, routes (such as HTTPRoute) can now have
a `Service` as a `parentRef`, to control how traffic to specific services behave.
For more information, read the 
[service mesh](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/mesh/) documentation or see the
list of 
[implementations](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/implementations/#service-mesh-implementation-status).

> 

Author: ```suggestion
As an example, one could do a canary deployment of a workload deep in an application's call graph with an HTTPRoute as follows:

~~~
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: HTTPRoute
metadata:
  name: color-canary
  namespace: faces
spec:
  parentRefs:
    - name: color
      kind: Service
      group: core
      port: 80
  rules:
  - backendRefs:
    - name: color
      port: 80
      weight: 50
    - name: color2
      port: 80
      weight: 50
~~~
      
This would split traffic sent to the color Service in the faces namespace 50/50 between the original color Service and the color2 Service, using a portable configuration that's easy to move from one mesh to another.
```

---
layout: blog
title: "Gateway API v1.1: Feature Graduation and Other Updates"
date: 2024-05-13T19:00:00-08:00
slug: gateway-api-v1-1
---

![Gateway API Logo](gateway-api-logo.png)
**Authors:** 
GRPCRoute - Richard Belleville (Google), 
ParentRef Port - Frank Budinsky (IBM),

> Gateway Client Certificate Validation - Arko Dasgupta (?),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gateway Client Certificate Validation - Arko Dasgupta (Tetrate),
```
/cc @arkodg

> GAMMA - John Howard (Google),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GAMMA - John Howard (Solo.io),
```
/cc @howardjohn

> Conformance Profiles and Reports - Mattia Lavacca (Kong), Christine Kim (?),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Conformance Profiles and Reports - Mattia Lavacca (Kong), Christine Kim (Isovalent),
```
/cc @xtineskim

Session Persistence and BackendLBPolicy - Grant Spence (Red Hat)
TLS Terminology Clarifications - Candace Holman (Red Hat),

> and other reviewer and release note contributors.

Author: /retitle Add Gateway API v1.1 Blog Post

In the wake of the GA release of Gateway API last October, the Kubernetes
SIG Network buoyantly announces the v1.1 release
of [Gateway API](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/). Gateway API features for

> **GRPCRoute**, **ParentRef Port**, and **Conformance Profiles and Reports** will
> graduate to
> Standard. In addition, **Gateway Client Certificate Verification** and **Session
> Persistence** are adopted as new, Experimental features. **Gateway API for
> Service Mesh (GAMMA)** support, and clarifications to TLS
> terminology and gateway merging are added to strengthen the release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Gateway API for Service Mesh (GAMMA)**, **GRPCRoute**, **ParentRef Port**, 
and **Conformance Profiles and Reports** will graduate to Standard.
In addition, **Gateway Client Certificate Verification** and **Session
Persistence** are adopted as new, Experimental features. Clarifications to TLS
terminology and gateway merging are added to strengthen the release.
```

Updated to move GAMMA up to Standard section to reflect grouping/ordering below.

### Graduation to Standard
This release includes the graduation to Standard of four eagerly awaited features.
This means they are no longer experimental concepts. **Standard** denotes a high
level of confidence in the API surface and provides guarantees of backward
compatibility.  Though these features are now considered stable, that does not
mean that they are complete. These and other features will continue to evolve via
the Experimental channel. For more information on how all of this works, refer
to the [Gateway API Versioning Policy](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/concepts/versioning/).

#### [GAMMA](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/mesh/)
Service mesh support in Gateway API allows service mesh users to use the same
API to manage ingress traffic and mesh traffic, reusing the same policy and
routing interfaces. In Gateway API v1.1, routes (such as HTTPRoute) can now have
a `Service` as a `parentRef`, to control how traffic to specific services behave.
For more information, read the 
[service mesh](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/mesh/) documentation or see the
list of 
[implementations](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/implementations/#service-mesh-implementation-status).

> 

Reviewer 2: Here's a starting point for an example:

> As an example, one could do a canary deployment of a workload deep in an application's call graph with an HTTPRoute as follows:
>
> ```yaml
> apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1beta1
> kind: HTTPRoute
> metadata:
>   name: color-canary
>   namespace: faces
> spec:
>   parentRefs:
>     - name: color
>       kind: Service
>       group: core
>       port: 80
>   rules:
>   - backendRefs:
>     - name: color
>       port: 80
>       weight: 50
>     - name: color2
>       port: 80
>       weight: 50
> ```
>
> This would split traffic sent to the `color` Service in the `faces` namespace 50/50 between the original `color` Service and the `color2` Service, using a portable configuration that's easy to move from one mesh to another.

> Leading Contributors: Flynn, John Howard, Keith Mattix, and Mike Morris

Author: @kflynn @howardjohn @keithmattix @mikemorris please check and add/change anything you'd like via code suggestion.

Reviewer 3: LGTM

Reviewer: LGTM, thanks for writing this up!

Reviewer 4: This could be a good opportunity to add an example of mesh config with Gateway API if anyone wants to work on it.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, @robscott, I like that idea. Example starting point added. 🙂 

@candita, thanks for all the work getting this put together!!

#### [GRPCRoute](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/guides/grpc-routing/)
If you are already using the experimental version of GRPCRoute, we recommend holding
off on upgrading to the standard channel version of GRPCRoute until the
controllers you're using have been updated to support GRPCRoute v1. Until then,
it is safe to upgrade to the experimental channel version of GRPCRoute in v1.1
that includes both v1alpha2 and v1 API versions.

> Leading Contributor: Richard Belleville

Author: @gnossen please check and add/change anything you'd like via code suggestion.

Reviewer 5: This looks great! Thanks @candita

Reviewer 4: @gnossen completely optional, but if you want to add a simple example of GRPCRoute in action, that could be useful here for any readers that aren't already familiar with it.

#### [ParentRef Port](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/reference/spec/#gateway.networking.k8s.io%2fv1.ParentReference)
Now you can use the `port` field in ParentRefs to attach resources to Gateways,
Services, or other parent resources. For example, you can attach an HTTPRoute to
one or more specific Listeners of a Gateway based
on the Listener `port`, instead of `name` field.

> Leading Contributor: Frank Budinsky

Author: @frankbu please check and add/change anything you'd like via code suggestion.

Reviewer 6: LGTM, but maybe add another sentence something like this?
```
For more information, see [Attaching to Gateways](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/api-types/httproute/#attaching-to-gateways).
```

#### [Conformance Profiles and Reports](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/concepts/conformance/#conformance-profiles)

The Conformance report API has been expanded with the `mode` field (intended to
specify the working mode of the implementation), and the `gatewayAPIChannel`
(standard or experimental). The `gatewayAPIVersion` and `gatewayAPIChannel` are
now filled in automatically by the suite machinery, along with a brief
description of the testing outcome. The Reports have been reorganized in a more
structured way, and the implementations can now add information on how the tests
have been run and provide reproduction steps.

> Leading Contributors: Christine Kim, Mattia Lavacca, Shane Utt

Author: @mlavacca @shaneutt @xtinkim please check and add/change anything you'd like via code suggestion.

Reviewer 7: It looks good to me

### New Additions to Experimental Channel

> #### [Gateway Client Certificate Verification]()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### [Gateway Client Certificate Verification](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/geps/gep-91/)
```
Is there a better link than the GEP for this?

Reviewer 4: @arkodg do you think you'll have time to add docs for this before this blog post goes live?

Gateways can now configure client cert verification for each Gateway Listener by
introducing a new field `frontendValidation` field within `tls`. This field
supports configuring a list of CA Certificates that can be used as a trust
anchor to validate the certificates presented by the client.

> Leading Contributor: Arko Dasgupta

Author: @arkodg please check and add/change anything you'd like via code suggestion.

Reviewer 8: added an example above, but the quotes within suggestion quotes and the code quotes is messing up the suggestion 🙈

> #### [Session Persistence and BackendLBPolicy]()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### [Session Persistence and BackendLBPolicy](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/geps/gep-1619/)
```
Is there a better link than the GEP for this?

Reviewer 4: @gcs278 @ginayeh do either of you think you'll have time to add some docs before this blog post goes live?

Session Persistence is being introduced to Gateway API via a new policy
(BackendLBPolicy) for Service-level configuration and as fields within HTTPRoute
and GRPCRoute for route-level configuration. The BackendLBPolicy and route-level
APIs provide the same session persistence configuration, including session
timeouts, session name, session type, and cookie lifetime type.

> Leading Contributors: Grant Spence, Gina Yeh

Author: @gcs278 @ginayeh please check and add/change anything you'd like via code suggestion.

Reviewer 9: Seems like folks are providing examples, I can do that here too if we think appropriate for session persistence. I could add a route-level example too, but may be a bit much.

```suggestion

Below is an example configuration of `BackendLBPolicy` that enables cookie-based session persistence
for the `foo` service. It sets the session name to `foo-session`, defines absolute and idle timeouts, and configures the cookie to be a session cookie:

~~~
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1alpha2
kind: BackendLBPolicy
metadata:
  name: lb-policy
  namespace: foo-ns
spec:
  targetRefs:
  - group: core
    kind: service
    name: foo
  sessionPersistence:
    sessionName: foo-session
    absoluteTimeout: 1h
    idleTimeout: 30m
    type: Cookie
    cookieConfig:
      lifetimeType: Session
~~~

Leading Contributors: Grant Spence, Gina Yeh
```

> #### [TLS Terminology Clarifications]()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### [TLS Terminology Clarifications](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/geps/gep-2907/)
```

---
layout: blog
title: "Gateway API v1.1: Feature Graduation and Other Updates"
date: 2024-05-13T19:00:00-08:00
slug: gateway-api-v1-1
---

![Gateway API Logo](gateway-api-logo.png)
**Authors:** 
GRPCRoute - Richard Belleville (Google), 
ParentRef Port - Frank Budinsky (IBM),
Gateway Client Certificate Validation - Arko Dasgupta (Tetrate),
GAMMA - John Howard (Solo.io),
Conformance Profiles and Reports - Mattia Lavacca (Kong), Christine Kim (Isovalent),

> Session Persistence and BackendLBPolicy - Grant Spence (Red Hat)

Author: ```suggestion
Session Persistence and BackendLBPolicy - Grant Spence (Red Hat), Gina Yeh (Google),
```

#### [Conformance Profiles and Reports](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/concepts/conformance/#conformance-profiles)

The Conformance report API has been expanded with the `mode` field (intended to
specify the working mode of the implementation), and the `gatewayAPIChannel`
(standard or experimental). The `gatewayAPIVersion` and `gatewayAPIChannel` are
now filled in automatically by the suite machinery, along with a brief
description of the testing outcome. The Reports have been reorganized in a more
structured way, and the implementations can now add information on how the tests
have been run and provide reproduction steps.

Leading Contributors: Christine Kim, Mattia Lavacca, Shane Utt

### New Additions to Experimental Channel

#### [Gateway Client Certificate Verification]()

Gateways can now configure client cert verification for each Gateway Listener by
introducing a new field `frontendValidation` field within `tls`. This field
supports configuring a list of CA Certificates that can be used as a trust
anchor to validate the certificates presented by the client.

Leading Contributor: Arko Dasgupta

#### [Session Persistence and BackendLBPolicy]()

> Session Persistence is being introduced to Gateway API via a new policy

Author: ```suggestion
[Session Persistence](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/reference/spec/#gateway.networking.k8s.io%2fv1.SessionPersistence) is being introduced to Gateway API via a new policy
```

> (BackendLBPolicy) for Service-level configuration and as fields within HTTPRoute

Author: ```suggestion
([BackendLBPolicy](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/reference/spec/#gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1alpha2.BackendLBPolicy))
for Service-level configuration and as fields within HTTPRoute
```

at the 2019 KubeCon San Diego as the next generation
of Ingress API. Since then, an incredible community has formed to develop what
has likely become the
[most collaborative API in Kubernetes history](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V3Vu_FWb4l4).
Over 200 people have contributed to this API so far, and that number continues
to grow.

The maintainers
would like to thank _everyone_ who's contributed to Gateway API, whether in the
form of commits to the repo, discussion, ideas, or general support. We literally
couldn't have gotten this far without the support of this dedicated and active
community.

## Try it out

Unlike other Kubernetes APIs, you don't need to upgrade to the latest version of
Kubernetes to get the latest version of Gateway API. As long as you're running
one of the 5 most recent minor versions of Kubernetes (1.25+), you'll be able to
get up and running with the latest version of Gateway API.

To try out the API, follow our [Getting Started Guide](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/guides/).

## Get involved

There are lots of opportunities to get involved and help define the future of
Kubernetes routing APIs for both ingress and service mesh.

> * Check out the [user guides](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/v1alpha1/guides/getting-started/) to see what use-cases can be addressed. 

Author: ```suggestion
* Check out the [user guides](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/guides) to see what use-cases can be addressed. 
```

---
layout: blog
title: "Gateway API v1.1: Feature Graduation and Other Updates"
date: 2024-05-13T19:00:00-08:00
slug: gateway-api-v1-1

> ---

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
author: >
  Richard Belleville (Google),
  Frank Budinsky (IBM),
  Arko Dasgupta (Tetrate),
  John Howard (Solo.io),
  Mattia Lavacca (Kong),
  Christine Kim (Isovalent),
  Grant Spence (Red Hat),
  Gina Yeh (Google),
  Candace Holman (Red Hat)
---
```

Reviewer 10: should make it look like other posts
![image](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/assets/878251/43eef361-2535-4bc8-accb-cee0c472edb8)

![Gateway API Logo](gateway-api-logo.png)

> **Authors:** 
> GRPCRoute - Richard Belleville (Google), 
> ParentRef Port - Frank Budinsky (IBM),
> Gateway Client Certificate Validation - Arko Dasgupta (Tetrate),
> GAMMA - John Howard (Solo.io),
> Conformance Profiles and Reports - Mattia Lavacca (Kong), Christine Kim (Isovalent),
> Session Persistence and BackendLBPolicy - Grant Spence (Red Hat), Gina Yeh (Google),
> TLS Terminology Clarifications - Candace Holman (Red Hat),
> and other reviewer and release note contributors.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer: IIUC these were the authors who wrote the copy for each section (which is distinct but may have some overlpa with the contributors who helped design and implement the respective functionality).

In the wake of the GA release of Gateway API last October, the Kubernetes

> SIG Network buoyantly announces the v1.1 release

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
SIG Network is happy to announce the v1.1 release
```
Maybe just me, but immediately sounded like a pun :) Buoyant -> Linkerd

Author: I wanted to keep the "sailing" metaphor going... "in the wake of".... "buoyantly". ⛵

Reviewer 2: Not gonna lie, I had that thought as well, but decided I was reading too much into a nautical metaphor. 🙂 

For the record, I'm confident that no one from Buoyant will be offended if we change it. 🙂

of [Gateway API](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/). Gateway API features for
**Gateway API for Service Mesh (GAMMA)**, **GRPCRoute**, **ParentRef Port**, 
and **Conformance Profiles and Reports** will graduate to Standard.
In addition, **Gateway Client Certificate Verification** and **Session
Persistence** are adopted as new, Experimental features. Clarifications to TLS
terminology and gateway merging are added to strengthen the release.

## What's new

### Graduation to Standard

> This release includes the graduation to Standard of four eagerly awaited features.
> This means they are no longer experimental concepts. **Standard** denotes a high

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
This release includes the graduation to _Standard_ of four eagerly awaited features.
This means they are no longer experimental concepts. Inclusion in the Standard release channel
denotes a high
```

level of confidence in the API surface and provides guarantees of backward
compatibility.  Though these features are now considered stable, that does not
mean that they are complete. These and other features will continue to evolve via
the Experimental channel. For more information on how all of this works, refer
to the [Gateway API Versioning Policy](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/concepts/versioning/).

#### [GAMMA](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/mesh/)
Service mesh support in Gateway API allows service mesh users to use the same
API to manage ingress traffic and mesh traffic, reusing the same policy and
routing interfaces. In Gateway API v1.1, routes (such as HTTPRoute) can now have

> a `Service` as a `parentRef`, to control how traffic to specific services behave.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a Service as a `parentRef`, to control how traffic to specific services behave.
```

(K8s standard is not to use code font for resource types. `parentRefs`, though, is the name of a field, so should be in code font.)

For more information, read the 

> [service mesh](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/mesh/) documentation or see the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Gateway API service mesh documentation](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/mesh/) or see the
```

?

> list of 
> [implementations](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/implementations/#service-mesh-implementation-status).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[list of Gateway API implementations](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/implementations/#service-mesh-implementation-status).
```

?

> ~~~

Reviewer 10: would you mind using triple backticks (```) for any code samples?

~~~
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: HTTPRoute
metadata:
  name: color-canary
  namespace: faces
spec:
  parentRefs:
    - name: color
      kind: Service
      group: core
      port: 80
  rules:
  - backendRefs:
    - name: color
      port: 80
      weight: 50
    - name: color2
      port: 80
      weight: 50
~~~
      

> This would split traffic sent to the color Service in the faces namespace 50/50 between the original color Service and the color2 Service, using a portable configuration that's easy to move from one mesh to another.
> Leading Contributors: Flynn, John Howard, Keith Mattix, and Mike Morris

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This would split traffic sent to the `color` Service in the `faces` namespace 50/50 between the original `color` Service and the `color2` Service, using a portable configuration that's easy to move from one mesh to another.

Leading Contributors: Flynn, John Howard, Keith Mattix, and Mike Morris
```

(This adds a blank line parallel to how leading contributors are listed elsewhere, but also sets the names of specific Services and namespaces in code font because, uh, that's how I typically do it at least? 🙂)

#### [GRPCRoute](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/guides/grpc-routing/)
If you are already using the experimental version of GRPCRoute, we recommend holding
off on upgrading to the standard channel version of GRPCRoute until the
controllers you're using have been updated to support GRPCRoute v1. Until then,
it is safe to upgrade to the experimental channel version of GRPCRoute in v1.1
that includes both v1alpha2 and v1 API versions.

Leading Contributor: Richard Belleville

> #### [ParentRef Port](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/reference/spec/#gateway.networking.k8s.io%2fv1.ParentReference)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### [Port in `parentRefs`](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/reference/spec/#gateway.networking.k8s.io%2fv1.ParentReference)
```

Author: I decided to go with ParentReference Port on this one.

> Now you can use the `port` field in ParentRefs to attach resources to Gateways,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now you can use the `port` field in `parentRefs` to attach resources to Gateways,
```

(`parentRefs` is a specific field, so it should be set in code font and its capitalization should match how it's used in YAML.)

Services, or other parent resources. For example, you can attach an HTTPRoute to
one or more specific Listeners of a Gateway based

> on the Listener `port`, instead of `name` field.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
on the Listener `port`, instead of the `name` field.
```

Author: Fixed a different way.

Leading Contributor: Frank Budinsky

#### [Conformance Profiles and Reports](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/concepts/conformance/#conformance-profiles)

The Conformance report API has been expanded with the `mode` field (intended to
specify the working mode of the implementation), and the `gatewayAPIChannel`
(standard or experimental). The `gatewayAPIVersion` and `gatewayAPIChannel` are
now filled in automatically by the suite machinery, along with a brief
description of the testing outcome. The Reports have been reorganized in a more
structured way, and the implementations can now add information on how the tests
have been run and provide reproduction steps.

Leading Contributors: Christine Kim, Mattia Lavacca, Shane Utt

> ### New Additions to Experimental Channel

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
### New additions to Experimental channel
```

#### [Gateway Client Certificate Verification](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/geps/gep-91/)

Gateways can now configure client cert verification for each Gateway Listener by
introducing a new field `frontendValidation` field within `tls`. This field
supports configuring a list of CA Certificates that can be used as a trust
anchor to validate the certificates presented by the client.

> 

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion

This example configuration shared below, shows how the CA Certificate stored in the `foo-example-com-ca-cert` ConfigMap can be used to validate the certificates presented by clients connecting to the `foo-https` Gateway listener.

```
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Gateway
metadata:
  name: client-validation-basic
spec:
  gatewayClassName: acme-lb
  listeners:
  - name: foo-https
    protocol: HTTPS
    port: 443
    hostname: foo.example.com
    tls:
      certificateRefs:
      - kind: Secret
        group: ""
        name: foo-example-com-cert
      frontendValidation:
        caCertificateRefs:
        - kind: ConfigMap
          group: ""
          name: foo-example-com-ca-cert
```
```

Author: @arkodg I tried to fix this up.  Let me know if there are any mistakes.

[Session Persistence](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/reference/spec/#gateway.networking.k8s.io%2fv1.SessionPersistence) is being introduced to Gateway API via a new policy
([BackendLBPolicy](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/reference/spec/#gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1alpha2.BackendLBPolicy))
for Service-level configuration and as fields within HTTPRoute
and GRPCRoute for route-level configuration. The BackendLBPolicy and route-level
APIs provide the same session persistence configuration, including session
timeouts, session name, session type, and cookie lifetime type.

Leading Contributors: Grant Spence, Gina Yeh

#### [TLS Terminology Clarifications](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/geps/gep-2907/)

As part of a broader goal of making our TLS terminology more consistent
throughout the API, we've introduced some breaking changes to BackendTLSPolicy.
This has resulted in a new API version (v1alpha3) and will require any existing
users of this policy to uninstall the v1alpha2 version before installing this
newer version.

Any references to v1alpha2 BackendTLSPolicy fields will need to be updated to
v1alpha3. Specific changes to fields include:

> - TargetRef is changed to allow multiples: BackendTLSPolicySpec.TargetRef
> becomes a slice named `TargetRefs`.
> - TLS is changed to `Validation`, and the type name changes from
> BackendTLSPolicyConfig to  `BackendTLSPolicyValidation`.
> - CACertRefs becomes `CACertificateRefs` in what is now `BackendTLSPolicyValidation`
> - WellKnownCACerts becomes `WellKnownCACertificates` and the type name
> changes from WellKnownCACertType to `WellKnownCACertificatesType`
> - the constant WellKnownCACertSystem becomes `WellKnownCACertificatesSystem`

Reviewer 2: This is written from the perspective of the Go types, but elsewhere we talk from the perspective of the YAML (e.g. the Go field is `TargetRef`, but in YAML that appears as `targetRef`). Someone who is more familiar with this than I am should doublecheck this, but maybe

```suggestion
- `targetRef` becomes `targetRefs` to allow a BackendTLSPolicy to attach to multiple targets;
- `TLS` is changed to `validation`, and its type name changes from
`BackendTLSPolicyConfig` to  `BackendTLSPolicyValidation`;
- `TLS.CACertRefs` becomes `validation.CACertificateRefs`;
- `wellKnownCACerts` becomes `wellKnownCACertificates`, and its type name
changes from `WellKnownCACertType` to `WellKnownCACertificatesType`; and
- The constant `WellKnownCACertSystem` becomes `WellKnownCACertificatesSystem`.
```

?

Author: Following the https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/, I use `code style` for field names and CamelCase for objects, type names, and constant names.

Reviewer 11: We write API kinds in UpperCamelCase and field names in the case you would see in JSON within an HTTP message.

Thanks for the update @candita

Leading Contributors: Candace Holman, Rob Scott

### Everything else

For a full list of the changes included in this release, please refer to the
[v1.1.0 release
notes](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/gateway-api/releases/tag/v1.1.0).

## Gateway API background

The idea of Gateway API was initially [proposed](https://youtu.be/Ne9UJL6irXY?si=wgtC9w8PMB5ZHil2)
at the 2019 KubeCon San Diego as the next generation
of Ingress API. Since then, an incredible community has formed to develop what
has likely become the
[most collaborative API in Kubernetes history](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V3Vu_FWb4l4).
Over 200 people have contributed to this API so far, and that number continues
to grow.

The maintainers
would like to thank _everyone_ who's contributed to Gateway API, whether in the
form of commits to the repo, discussion, ideas, or general support. We literally
couldn't have gotten this far without the support of this dedicated and active
community.

## Try it out

Unlike other Kubernetes APIs, you don't need to upgrade to the latest version of
Kubernetes to get the latest version of Gateway API. As long as you're running

> one of the 5 most recent minor versions of Kubernetes (1.25+), you'll be able to

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
a version of Kubernetes  >= 1.25+, you'll be able to
```

This make sense still?
I'm thinking this will stand the test of time as new releases come out

Reviewer 11: I think Gateway is making a supportability promise here. Not sure.

Author: I copy/pasted from previous Gateway API blogs.  @robscott is it worth keeping?

Reviewer 4: Yeah, I'd keep something like this in place. Technically we should bump the version to v1.26+ in this post now that v1.30 is out. In general, I think the key thing we're trying to communicate is that Gateway API is committed to supporting the 5 most recent minor versions of Kubernetes, so I think we should make sure the wording we choose here makes that part clear.

Reviewer 2: Since this is for humans, how about 

> As long as you're running Kubernetes 1.26 or later...

?

Author: Updated.

get up and running with the latest version of Gateway API.

To try out the API, follow our [Getting Started Guide](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/guides/).

## Get involved

There are lots of opportunities to get involved and help define the future of
Kubernetes routing APIs for both ingress and service mesh.

* Check out the [user guides](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/guides) to see what use-cases can be addressed. 
* Try out one of the [existing Gateway controllers ](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/implementations/)
* Or [join us in the community](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/contributing/)
and help us build the future of Gateway API together!

## Related Kubernetes Blogs
* [New Experimental Features in Gateway API v1.0](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2023/11/28/gateway-api-ga/)
11/2023
* [Gateway API v1.0: GA Release](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2023/10/31/gateway-api-ga/)
10/2023
* [Introducing ingress2gateway; Simplifying Upgrades to Gateway API](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2023/10/25/introducing-ingress2gateway/)
10/2023
* [Gateway API v0.8.0: Introducing Service Mesh Support](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2023/08/29/gateway-api-v0-8/)
08/2022

> * [Kubernetes Gateway API Graduates to Beta](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2022/07/13/gateway-api-graduates-to-beta/)
> 07/2022

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
```
I wonder if the later release articles are sufficient additional reads here as this one is nearly 2 years old and maybe has old information compared to the others?

Author: Agreed.
